We know that a lot of students, or some students
anyway, had part-time jobs, and I believe you
mentioned earlier at one point that you, I
believe, worked in the library. C.C. Yeats was a
senior my first year, and he asked me if I wanted to
work in the chem lab with him, and I took the job for
15 or 20 cents an hour. I don't know what it was. And
the next year, I'd been in the library so much, I got
to voluntarily helping doing things,
straightening up things. And so the lady in charge
asked me if I wanted the job, and I took it for 20
cents an hour. And I kept those jobs through my
senior year, not in chemistry, only my junior,
senior year. But the last year in college, I still
worked in the, didn't work in either one of them,
actually. the last year I was there, when I went
back in January 1919.
But
I made my expenses at $0.20 an hour on average
working in either chemistry or in the library
during that period. I got some help from home. All I
asked for, I wouldn't ask for it because I wanted to
do it on my own. since I'd been out of school four
years before I went to A&M. My money was lost in a
bank failure in Fort Worth three months before
school opened, and I was broke after saving for
four years. That must have been quite a blow. Yep.
Did the athletes on campus when you were there
receive any particularly special treatment?
Only into the that they had a separate table, I
think, in the dormitory. But as for special favors
to athletes, I don't think there were any.
Basically, they had to make the drill and abide by
the rules that the rest of you did. They had to
abide. Well, some rules they drilled and things of
that kind. Some of it they got out of. Didn't have to
do it. But I don't think there was any special
effort to get out of anything. Were a goodly
percentage of them on scholarship? I don't think
there was any scholarships at that time. In my
impression, there wasn't. I think they were all
there on their own. They just were there for the fun
of it. Yeah, they just, there were no
scholarships. I never heard of a scholarship
while I was at A&M College. Okay. In looking
through your senior yearbook, I noticed that you
were a member of the, I guess it's K-E-B-L-E,
Keeble Club. The Keeble Club was an organization.
I don't know who started it. It was in existence
before I got there. It was started by a group of
Episcopal students. Keeble was one of the
outstanding Roman Catholic, I guess you'd call
him a missionary. I can't give you his history.
I've forgotten. I hadn't heard of that in so long.
But the opposite was for the Catholic boys. And
theirs is the, oh, my memory's terrible. The
Catholic boys had their own, and the name they
selected was the great scholastic
minister who was an Episcopalian. It went over to
Catholic. Keeble was Catholic, went over to
Episcopalian. Now, that's a rough history of that
back there. But we met once a month in a dormitory
room. But
the local minister from downtown would come out
and visit with us. And we'd talk generalities.
There wasn't any religious activities connected
with it. And that's the only thing I remember about
that. Of course, we had a Fort Worth club. It met
once or two or three times a year. So we'd recognize
each other. At that time, I knew everybody from
Fort Worth. But they've all disappeared. And
let's see, you were also in the SAA. That was what?
FAA? SAA. Student Agricultural Association or
something? It was something like that, but I don't
remember any activities connected with it. What
about the horticultural society? We had a
horticultural society, which only met once or
twice. I've
forgotten what we did, actually. I don't remember
even the members of it. I'd have to look in the . I
assume it was primarily horticulture. Yeah.
Earlier, you sort of summarized your career from
graduation. work in China, and at one point while
we had the mic off, you were telling me something
about the one factor which influenced your
decision to go to China, about the lecturer who was
on campus. Yes, Frank N. Myers, who gave his
lecture on his experiences in China, and I
experienced many of the same things on my own,
because I've walked across China twice myself,
and but not in the area that he had been, that he
reflected to me, because he was in northwest China
where an ox cart was possible. I have never lived in
China where an ox cart was possible. I've had
either sedan chairs or rowboats or walking, and
I've walked across most of China, central China.
Living in China, of course, is much like living in a
country as large as the United States. A person who
has lived in New York all his life doesn't know
anything about the Big Bend industry. He wouldn't
know how people lived in South Texas. And people
live in Shanghai all their life, or all the time in
China, have no conception whatsoever of the rest
of the countries. And that goes people in the north
or south, so you get many conflicting impressions
of the country. After you came back from China then
and things erupted in China and you were in the
United States, presumably you were then without a
job back in China. Yes, I came back to the United
States and was here for a year. My company finally
decided they couldn't send me back. But in case I
would go back, they asked me if there was anything I
wanted to do. And I told them I wanted to take a
training course in motor rebuilding at the Ford
Motor Company. And they arranged that. I went out
to Ford Motor Company in Detroit and spent two
months rebuilding automobile engines so that I
could get the equipment to establish in China to
service the motors we had already sold. And I also
had about 80% of all the tire sales in China,
central China, because I knew the name and make and
owner of every car in there, because it was a
limited area where you could drive a car. And
outside of the foreign community, you couldn't.
And so I went to Goodyear for, I don't know, six
months, I guess. I learned how to build tires and
rebuild them and repair them. They put me on the
export desk for Central America and I stayed there
for the rest of that part of that year.
picked a man who had never been out of the United
States to send him to China to take the place of my
favorite district manager in the company in
China. And so I quit there. And I then
took a job with
an oil company, HH Oil Company, in
West Texas in Big Spring. And I worked as a
roughneck for six
months until I nearly got killed and I quit. And I
went back to the company in New York, and we finally
decided I wasn't going back to China. And I met an
executive of this associated oil company who had a
refinery in Patterson, New Jersey. So with my
experience in that, I went down there and they put
me through a course of combining fuel oils,
lubricating oils, and I stayed there for a few
weeks. I accidentally walked into the Texaco
office, Foreign Department, and
told them who it was. And I wanted to find out where
J.C. Williams was, the person I knew in China who
lived with me. And he told me. And in the course of
it, he asked me if I wanted to go back to China. And I
told him I did someday. And I gave him my name and
address. I was staying at the Times Square Hotel.
The next morning at eight o'clock, he called me up
and asked me if I'd come down to the office. He
wanted to talk to me. And he laid before me this
request from the Shanghai District Office that
they'd like to have me back out there. And this was
two weeks before Christmas.
We talked it over. He said, well, while your thing
is over, would you mind finding out something
about our products? Well, I said, I know about your
products. Your man lived with me for four years.
And I've been using it on motor cars in China. And I
said, it's almost as good as standard oil
products. And he left. So he sent me over to Long
Island City for weeks training on their oils. And,
of course, my experience as a roughneck in the oil
field and also with Union Associated Oil, they
thought it would be a good idea if I took this job to
go out to China. So I told him I would like to go in
January. Well, he said, we have a boat leaving the
6th of January from Seattle. And I said, well, I
have to get back to Texas and get things
straightened up because then there's a week
before Christmas. before I, January 6th would be
too early. And he immediately said that, well, if I
was working for a hard-boiled outfit, and that
they wasn't accustomed to giving two weeks
vacation to somebody before they hired them. And
he said, I see there's a boat on the 21st of January,
and if you don't own the whole damn state of Texas,
you ought to be able to get ready at that time. So I
came back home and packed and went back to China
with the Texas Company. And of course I knew the
territory and I knew the Chinese and knew the
companies and knew all the hooks and crooks of
dealing with the Chinese. Everything was fine
until my district manager made a big blunder. ship
load of kerosene up through the Yangtze Gorges at
the time when the price was highest. The rate's
always higher in wintertime when the water's low.
And I was opposed to it, but he shipped it anyhow
because he had a friend in the English community
who he was toady into because he was so excellent at
the country club. And they shipped it up there, and
it lay out in the harbor for 10 days in the rain on a
flat boat. And we paid the taxes on it, the internal
taxes. And when the general in charge of the area
came down, we couldn't produce tax sheets. The
Englishmen in charge of shipping it on an English
boat up through the gorges couldn't be found, and
they taxed us again on it. And we lost—had all these
cases exposed to rain, and they began to rust and to
leak. And we got it up to Chongqing a week or two
later. They had 800 gallons lost, and the Chinese
came and dipped it up with tin cans and what have you
out of the ship and located it on the foreshore
where they had not any place to store it except in a
Chinese hut. and there was kerosene leaking all
over the place, one that didn't all catch fire.
Well, they sent me up there to straighten that out,
and they also sent up an interpreter who was a
professional detective who had worked for
Standard Oil for many years, and he had the record
of this, and he double-crossed me because I
couldn't speak the Sichuanese language, and he
took a fifth of one-tenth or one-tenth of a percent
off of Comshaw for each case, and we finally found a
place outside of the city limits of what we'd call
the harbor limits there. A Chinese house was
roofed in with bamboo, and you could put 30,000
cases in there, and we did, and then they had to hire
men to look after it. And the reason I took it,
because it was the only place available, and it was
right in the middle of the thieves' union
territory. You have unions of thieves in China,
and you have to play with the thieves, not the
police. Because when the thieves steal anything,
they know who got it. And if they don't, somebody
gets the throat
cut. When it was found out, of course, and reported
to New York, and they got wind of it, I put their
cargo in the center of a thieves outfit. And I was
paying the thieves $50 a month just to look after
it. And the thieves, of course, were not going to
let anybody else steal it. And they were
satisfied. They'd get more money that way than
they was getting any other way, illegitimately.
And this was perfectly safe.
The company sent another detective up there,
their own up there, and they found this fellow
chiseling for $7,000. And so we had a big racket,
and the interpreter disappeared, and I never have
known what happened to him. I took him as
interpreter to see one of the Tuchans across the
river, and it turned out that This Tuchin had a
reward out for his head, because he had stole one of
these concubines. And we went in, and he
interpreted our discourses and made an agreement
as to the treatment of our men down on the
waterfront. And I didn't find this out till after
he came back. And he disappeared. The general
in charge of ,, his men picked him up and beheaded
him. I assume they did. I never found out what
happened. So I came back downriver and
had a long story of horror to tell them. And so they
said, well, you better get back down to Shanghai
district. And when I went to Shanghai, the first
thing that told me he wanted me to go to Korea. And I
went to Korea for six or eight months. I came back to
Shanghai, and that time the Depression hit. was
still reflecting on us out there. They came back,
and eight or 10 of the people who had been with them
for 25 years were cashiered because they couldn't
keep them any longer, and all of their hard plans
had been messed up. And so they said that they'd
have to cancel my contract. And so that was
satisfying to me because things were getting
pretty rough.
though I took my money and got on a boat and went
around the world, stayed a few weeks, months in
India and Egypt and France and Germany and
England. And when I landed back in New York with red
lines a mile long, a very depressing time, I got all
my junk back to Texas. and then went back to the
University of Pennsylvania and just got on a
streetcar and drove out there and enrolled. And I
stayed there until 1937 when
I accidentally came down here and
contacted these people at Tech. Two years later, I
came down here. Did you teach at University of
Pennsylvania then? No, I was a graduate student
there. I took the business administration
course, then I took the doctoral course. And I was
writing my thesis between 36 and 39. And when the
war started, the Japanese oriental division of
the Library of Congress double-crossed me out of
all of my documented references. And so I knew I
couldn't finish it. So then I gave up. Meantime, I
got married. And so we landed in here in 1940. I did
Texas Tech. And I stayed there until I retired in
62. OK. So that's how come you were, the business
course you took was what made you teach economics
and management rather than horticulture, which
was your undergraduate major. Yes. See, I'd been
so far away from agriculture for those years
because I'd been in shipping and international
trade. International relations. So I majored in
international economics at the university. And
then did you ever finish your doctorate? No. No. My
first son was my doctorate. I didn't expect him so
soon. And arriving down here, then the war
destroyed all of the pertinence of my four years
accumulation of information. I had to run for
three years at the Department of Commerce,
Department of State. I was in both those. I knew
everybody in there in those days. It was very
simple. Of course, you couldn't get in there
without an armed guard now, but I knew everybody in
there in those days. And so then you were at Texas
Tech in the economics department from, what, 40?
40 to 62. And of course, in 42, they made me head of
department. And I stayed head of department until
I retired from that in 65. And of course, remained
there the next three years. Made it 22 years in all
when I retired in 62. What have you been doing since
you retired? Well, unfortunately, my wife
developed Parkinson's disease, and that limited
our activities. We visited with relatives in
various places in Texas. I mean, Fort Worth
primarily. But as she grew worse, she required
more of my attention. And I became her sole nurse
for the next 10 years. And she died June a year ago.
And I've spent all my time the last four years as a
nurse around the clock. And I've only been out of
town once in four years. Week before last, I went up
to Wisconsin to visit my son, who's with General
Motors up there, and I had a week with him. It's the
only time I've had one night out of my house in
nearly five years. Okay. Albert Atkinson was a CE
student enlisted in this 32nd Service Company
with me, and he was what we call a photographer buff
today. And when these airplanes, one of them
landed there, I think it was out of Houston or
someplace down there. This was on campus? On
campus. He had talked this fellow into taking him
up and let him take pictures. And he took pictures
of the campus. And I have three or four of them he
gave me. And
I would suggest that if you could see him in Dallas,
and he's in the student directory there. Albert
Atkinson, 29. I think he must have had a son or two
because there's two more Atkinsons down there.
But he's CE 1920. Actually, I think he was, well, I
think that was it. No, he was class of 19, I think.
But I'd just love to see him. I haven't seen him
since I left college. He was the same man who took
the picture of the University of Texas steer that
was branded. I think that's right, and I have a
picture of that, too. That occurred while you were
a student, did it not? Yes, that was one of the big
episodes. We've had a good bit of interest in that
just recently, my assistant and I have. As a matter
of fact, he went down to McAllen and interviewed
Hans Rohde, who did the branding. Hans Rohde did
the branding. Got a good story from him about the
branding. I like to read that sometimes, it's a
memory. Rodie also sent us in the mail an
invitation to a barbecue that he thought occurred
in 22 but I believe it was actually 1920 and this
would have been during your senior year that
apparently with this 13 to nothing brand on the
side of the animal some people have said they the
University of Texas over branded it to read Bevo
and we can't find any proof of that. Some people
have said the animal never made another public
appearance. It never made another public
appearance as far as I know. You see, I left the
country after that, but from the impression I got
when I got back there, I got back and talked to some
people. I understood that they disposed of that
animal. Well, Rhodey sent us an invitation to a
banquet in Austin in 1920. which supposedly they
had killed this animal and had a barbecue over in
austin and they invited people from a m and people
from university of texas to it and supposedly uh
according to a newspaper clipping we have they
split to hide one school got one half and the other
school got the other half i don't know who got the
branded half we've never been able to track that
down oh that was big days and exciting that's one of
the most exciting things that ever happened i've
been looking back on it That was really something.
The school went wild. Well, there was another one
afterwards. Or was it before? We went down to
Houston and beat the Owls. And I think it was the
first time we'd beat them in years. And they had a
mascot. It was a big
stuffed owl. And a group of students swiped it and
ran down the street with it and put it on the train
and expressed it at a college station. And the Rice
student body tried to come down and recover it, and
the express company wouldn't release it, of
course. And they brought that back. And we had an
armory up on the third floor of the administration
in the northeast corner, and they stored it in
there. And some Rice students came up there, and
they stayed on the campus as visitors for three or
four days. And they finally found out where that
was, where it was hidden. So one night, they went up
there with crowbars and broke that open and got the
thing down those three flights, staring into a
car. And it had no better sense than to parade
around the campus yelling, we got the owl. And so
they started off those dirt roads all the way down
to Houston then, you see. And so it happened just 3
o'clock in the morning. The whole student body,
nice shirts and everything else. They got on a
train to beat it down to Navasota to head it off. And
some went in cars that they could scramble to get
the very many cars around. But they finally got a
bridge over a creek down there. They got there
before this car and the Bryce group went off in the
woods and burned it up rather than have it
captured. That was pretty exciting. But they
brought those people back, kept them on the campus
as prisoners for three or four days. It was all good
natured stuff, but it was lots of excitement.
Yeah, that was a pretty good story. That sort of
stuff really can't go on anymore, I don't think.
They've pilfered a few things over the last two
years, but not anything like that. Oh, a couple
years ago, they stole the university steer again.
They did. Brought it over to campus and braided it
around for a while, and then they took it back, or
allowed it to go back. There's something happened
to the spirit of students out at Tech, even in the
faculty. For the years I was there, our faculty was
closely associated, especially in the Division
of Business Administration. We were all closely
associated. Of course, we were on two floors. And
we had meetings with each other all the time. And
we'd have social meetings, three formal ones
through the year. And the students
seemed to be closer together. And there wasn't any
friction. But now I'm told I haven't been on the
campus much since I retired because I As they say, I
had to stay at home. And when the cars got so
numerous that it was difficult to park, and after I
hurt my feet, I couldn't. It was too uncomfortable
to walk up there. And then they finally put the
administration over in the new high rise
building. And they're all on different floors.
And they don't see each other once a year. And they
don't even know the names of the new people that
know the people who come in. Across the campus,
there's so many new people come in. The faculty's
tripled in numbers. And people don't know each
other except in their own division. And when I said
to someone here recently, who is this new man you
got in economics? He said, I haven't met him. I
don't know. So you have that spirit. They don't
have parties anymore, social activities. I think
this is true at many, many schools. We used to have a
little place down there where the agriculture
building is. Now there's a little tree, some
forest there, a few trees. And we'd have faculty
picnics down there. And then we used the old, what
do you call it, the auditorium or the place where
the judge am. We used to have parties in there two or
three times a year, the whole faculty. And of
course, you could get the whole faculty in one room
then. There was room 225 that would hold 100. We'd
get everybody in there. Today, they haven't got a
building. They're big enough to take care of
things, let alone the students.